I think there's going to be a very
important conference and I'll get to
that toward the middle but I have a few
things to report and want to thank you
all for being here and I have to say I
think with social distancing that the
media has been much nicer I don't know
what it is all these empty fees in
between chairs we probably shouldn't
have anybody sitting behind you either
you know I should probably go back but I
love it it's so much nicer but I
shouldn't say that because you'll get me
now thank you all for being here and we
continue our relentless effort to defeat
the Chinese virus before I begin I want
to start by announcing that today we are
bringing home another American citizen
and it's a big thing very big
Amer hey Cory is on his way back to the
United States after being imprisoned in
Lebanon since September of 2019 he's
battling late-stage cancer mr. Hikari
will now be able to receive the much
needed care and treatment in the United
States we've been working very hard to
get him freed then he's finally able to
have his entire family at his side so
I'm very grateful to the Lebanese
government they worked with us and we
are very proud of his family they stood
by him so strongly and they are thrilled
the United States has no higher priority
than the safety and well-being of our
citizens we've gotten a tremendous
number of hostages out as you know I
think we're 42 and oh and Robert O'Brien
as you know was or chief negotiator for
a large part of it in fact did so well
that now we have him in a different
position so I want to thank and
congratulate Robert and his team and I
want to let everyone know that
recovering Americans held captive and
imprisoned abroad continues to be a top
priority for my administration we have
one young gentleman Austin Tice
we're working very hard with Syria to
get him out we hope the Syrian
government will do that counting on them
to do that we've written a letter just
recently but he's been there for a long
time and was captured long ago Austin
Tice his mother's probably watching and
she's a great lady and we're doing the
best we can
so Syria please work with us and we
would appreciate your letting them out
of you think about what we've done we've
gotten rid of the Isis Caliphate in
Syria we've done a lot for Syria we have
to see if they're going to do this so it
would be very much appreciated if they
would let Austin Tice out immediately as
you know my administration is working
every day to protect American people and
the American economy from the virus
yesterday I signed into law a critical
support for American workers families
and small businesses big thing we're
providing sick leave and family medical
leave to those affected by the virus and
more health is on the way as we speak
our entire team headed by secretary
minuchin is on the hill we're working
with Democrats and Republicans and
there's a lot of goodwill going on this
was something that happened that was
some people would say an act of God I
don't view it as an act of God I would
view it as as something that just
surprised the whole world and if people
would have known about it it could have
stopped been stopped in place it could
have been stopped right where it came
from China if we would have known about
it if they would have known about it
but now the whole world almost is
inflicted with this horrible with this
horrible virus and it's too bad it's too
bad because we never had an economy as
good as the economy we had just a few
weeks ago
but we'll be back and I actually think
we'll be back stronger than ever before
because we learned a lot during this
period of time I also just invoked the
defense production act to help
facilitate distribution of essential
supplies if necessary we're working with
Congress to provide major additional
relief to the workers small businesses
and the hardest hit industries we want
to make sure that everybody is able to
continue on so that when we recover all
of these companies and these great
businesses both very very small and very
very large they're not going to be
broken up and you'd have to put them
back together that would take a long
time because we really believe in I
believe in the V curve I believe it's
going to go when this is when this is
defeated this hidden scourge is defeated
I think we're going to go up very
rapidly our economy and get back to
where it was and beyond today I want to
share with you exciting progress that
the FDA is making with the private
sector as we slash red tape like nobody
has ever done it before somebody was on
yesterday or one of the networks and
said that there's never been a president
even close that's been able to do what
I've done in slashing all of the red
tape and everything to get very
important things to the market medical
so we slash red tape to develop vaccines
and therapies as fast as it can possibly
be done long before anybody else was
even thinking about doing this and as
you know earlier this week we began the
first clinical trial of a vaccine
candidate for the virus and that was
launched in record time it was just a
few weeks and that would have taken
years to do not so long ago
as we race to develop a vaccine we're
also pursuing antiviral therapies and
that's what really we're going to be
talking to you about today that's the
purpose of being up here today and to me
that's even more important than you
vaccine by its nature you have to have
long tests because you have to make sure
what goes into somebody's body is not
going to do just
action do bad things so you need long
tests and they're doing great with the
vaccines but there's still a long
process but the therapies are something
we can move on much faster potentially
and the treatments that we'll be able to
reduce the severity or duration of the
symptoms to make people better
essentially with looking at things to
make people better or at the very
earliest stages they wouldn't even know
they had it and that's where I believe
it's going to work even the best the FDA
Commissioner Stephen on who's with us
he's fantastic
and he's been working 24 hours a day
he's been he's worked like probably as
hard or harder than anybody in this in
the group other than maybe Mike Pence or
me and what the FDA is doing is
incredible they've done things in times
that were not even thinkable and I've
directed the FDA to eliminate outdated
rules and bureaucracy so this work can
proceed rapidly quickly and I mean fast
and we have to remove every barrier
there were a lot of barriers that were
unnecessary and they've done that to get
the rapid deployment of safe effective
treatments and we think we have some
good answers we'll find out very very
soon clinical trials are already
underway for many new therapies and
we're working on scaling these to allow
many more Americans to access different
drugs that have shown really good
promise we vet on really good promise we
will do so in a way that lets us
continue to collect good data to know
which medicines are safe and which
medicines are working the best we have a
couple that we're
we're in really good shape on and that's
for immediate delivery immediate like as
fast as we can get it the FDA has also
approved compassionate use for a
significant number of patients you know
what that means we're also reviewing
drugs that are approved abroad or drugs
approved here for other uses and you
know one of the things that I'm most
proud of that I got was right to try
that's where somebody who's ill somebody
who's very sick terminally ill usually
in past administrations we signed us a
year and a half ago you wouldn't be able
to even think about getting any of the
drugs that may be showing great promise
now and they've been trying for many
decades to get this approved and it
sounds simple but it's not because
there's liability involved and lots of
other things and I was able to get it
approved working with Congress right to
try this is beyond right to try what
we're talking about today is beyond
right to try the right to try a spin by
the way tremendous success people are
living now that had no chance of living
where we take treatments that would have
things that that would have to go
through years of a process and if
somebody was terminally ill and I would
say why wouldn't they be able to try
this they'd go to Asia they go to Europe
they go all over the world to try and
find something or some people have they
had no money we go home to die they go
home to die they had no hope right to
try has been an incredible success but
this is beyond right to try if treatment
is known to be safe in Europe Japan or
other nations are effective against a
virus we'll use that information to
protect the health and safety of
American people nothing will stand in
our way as we pursue any Avenue to find
what best works against this horrible
virus now a drug called chloroquine
and some people would add to it hydroxy
hydroxychloroquine so chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine now this is a common
malaria drug it's also a drug used for
strong arthritis somebody has pretty
serious arthritis also uses this in a
somewhat different form but it is known
as a malaria drug and it's been around
for a long time and it's very powerful
but the nice part is it's been around
for a long time so we know that if it if
if things don't go as planned it's not
going to kill anybody when you go with a
brand new drug you don't know that
that's gonna happen you have to see and
you have to go long tests but this has
been used in different forms very
powerful drug in different forms and
it's shown very encouraging very very
encouraging early results and we're
going to be able to make that drug
available almost immediately and that's
where the FDA has been so great they
they've gone through the approval
process it's been approved and they did
it they took it down from many many
months to immediate so we're gonna be
able to make that drug available by
prescription or States I spoke with
Governor Cuomo about it at great length
last night and he wants to be right on
on the he wants to be first on the line
and so I think that's a tremendous as
tremendous promise based on the results
and other tests this tremendous promise
and normally the FDA would take a long
time to approve something like that and
it's it was approved very very quickly
and it's now approved by prescription
individual states will handle it they
can handle it doctors will handle it
and I think it's gonna be I think it's
gonna be great
then we're quickly studying this drug
and while we're continuing to study it
but the studying is going to be also
done in as it's given out to large
groups of people perhaps in New York and
other places will study if they're there
are promising therapies produced by
Gilead and that's where MD sir voir REM
devar and that's a drug used for other
purposes that's been out and said very
good results for other purposes but it
seems to have a very good result having
to do with this virus and that drug also
has been approved or very close to
approved in that case by the FDA and I
can't tell you how much we appreciate
what the FDA these people are incredible
Patriots and the job that Stephen Han is
doing dr. Han was one of the most
respected doctors in the country by the
way well we took him I said you sure you
want to do this now we didn't know that
this was going to be in the playlist
what happened here but he really has
stepped up to the plate
wherever you are words a chick is here
but I'm not supposed to do that getting
a lot of trouble if I did but he's been
fantastic and I thank you doctor he's
gonna speak right after I'm finished so
Regeneron again and some is a company
that's done fantastically well as I
understand with Ebola and some other
things great company and they're looking
at some very promising events also so
you have rim Jets of war and you have
cleric wind and i dro hydroxychloroquine
so those are two that are out now
essentially approved for prescribe use
and i think it's going to be very
exciting I think it could be
the game changer and maybe not and maybe
not but I think it could be based on
what I see it could be a game changer
very powerful they're very powerful so I
want every American to know that we're
doing everything we can and these
actions are important next steps I mean
for the FDA to act the way they acted
with this kind of speed is an incredible
thing normally they'd say well we can
have it by next year or we could have it
by in two years from now you understand
this is the way normally it's like years
and years and years they had it
immediately based on the fact that it's
been used for other things totally
unrelated things we believe these
therapeutics and others under evaluation
right now we'll be able to provide
relief to many Americans we really hope
that's going to be this could be a
tremendous breakthrough tremendous
breakthrough and we will work toward a
much needed to vaccine in the future as
I said and what we're doing with the FDA
is so exciting in so many other fields
so many things are happening it's a very
exciting time for for medicine and we
appreciate that the American public has
pulled together they're really staying
home and I think there's tremendous
spirit in this country right now it's
spirit like a lot of people have not
seen people have not seen anything like
it
for a long time and that means
democrat-republican
they're pulling together I hope
everything's going good on the hill
maybe I shouldn't say this until I check
out what's going on because you never
know but but I think there's a great
spirit where the Democrats the
Republicans and everybody else they're
getting together and they're trying to
get things done but most importantly the
American public has been incredible we
took the best economy we've ever had and
we said stop you can't work you have to
stay home you know there's never been a
case like this normally you pay a lot of
money to get things going here's a case
we're paying a lot of money to stop
things because we don't want people to
be together so that this virus doesn't
continue onward so there's never been
anything like this in history there's
never been a nobody has ever seen
anything like this
but we're doing the right thing we have
to get rid of in our big war he's not a
it's not a financial war it's a war and
it's a medical war we have to win this
war it's very important with that I'd
like to just introduce dr. Stephen Hahn
and he again I'd like to send back with
Stephen our thanks to all of the people
working in the FDA who are fantastic
talented people we appreciate it very
much everything you've done especially
the speed that you got these two
elements these two very important drugs
passed thank you very much thank you mr.
president I want to thank you for your
leadership during this corona virus
outbreak and thank you for the kind
words about the FDA staff we have 10,000
scientists doctors and others and more
than that working around the clock to
aid the American people in this fight
against the corona virus and those words
are very much appreciated sir thank you
so before the president nominated me and
I was confirmed as commissioner from
drugs I was a cancer doctor and I've sat
across from countless number of patients
and had to talk to them about their
diagnosis in their treatment and one
thing that was really important is to
provide hope I have great hope for how
we're going to come out of this
situation what's also important is not
to provide false hope but to provide
hope and as a doctor that's the way I
come to this I'm speaking now to the
American people as commissioner of food
and drugs but that part of me has not
left just look at the way the American
people have responded to our calls for
mitigation for social distancing
American people have great resiliency
and I'm so incredibly proud of how the
American people have responded as the
president mentioned he asked us to be
aggressive to break down barriers to
innovation and to accelerate the
development of life-saving treatments
and we're doing that at the FDA the FDA
is committed to continuing to provide
regulatory flexibility and
but let me make one thing clear FDA's
responsibility to the American people is
to ensure that products are safe and
effective and yet we are continuing to
do that our folks and their tremendous
professionals are working day and night
to do this you just can't even imagine
how much they're working to provide the
support for the American people and I
thank them since early January long
before the first domestic case FDA began
working in collaboration with CDC I also
want to note that we stood up at
incident command group and have been
focused on the corona virus since the
very beginning of this public health
emergency this is in addition and all of
government and all America approach and
I'll describe what I mean by that in
terms of the development of therapeutics
an important part of that work is
expanding the potential therapeutic
options associated with coronavirus and
we've learned from our colleagues across
the globe about this but I I want to
focus on one thing I was a cancer
researcher before all this and one thing
I know about this great country of ours
is that we have unbelievable innovators
we have people who every day it's their
job to develop treatments for all sorts
of diseases we are incredibly blessed as
a country to have this and as is true in
any illness these great American
innovators academia private sector they
have engaged us about the best possible
treatment options we are looking at
everything that's coming across our
desks as possible treatment options for
coronavirus and we're extremely
encouraged by the interest and the
promise that we've seen from these great
American innovators now again we need to
look at it we need the data we need the
information to make the absolute best
decisions for American people but I want
to assure you we have over 17,000 people
at FDA who are doing this every day we
need we need to make sure that these the
see of new treatments will get the right
drug to the right patient at the right
dosage at the right time as an example
we may have the right drug but it may
not be in the appropriate dosage form
right now
and that made you more harm than good
those are the things that that's our job
to look at and that's why it's really
important we have these dedicated
professionals looking at these aspects
of therapeutic development at the same
time we're also working through
different mechanisms to actually get
drugs into the hands of providers and
patients the president mentioned this
but one of the mechanisms called
compassionate use let me just tell you
about this if there's an experimental
drug that's potentially available a
doctor could ask for that drug to be
used in a patient we have criteria for
that and very speedy approval for that
the important thing about compassionate
use and that's what the president meant
this is even beyond right to try is that
we get to collect the information about
that because one of the things there's
no promise the American people is we
will collect the data and then make the
absolute right decisions based upon
those data about the safety and efficacy
of the treatments we are working
expeditiously and we are working to make
sure that these products are as safe and
effective as they possibly can be can be
let me tell you about a few things that
we're currently working on and this is a
plan that was developed with many of the
people at this table are infectious
disease experts on the task force in the
short term we're looking at drugs that
are already approved for other
indications so they're already approved
as the president said for other diseases
as an example many Americans have read
studies and heard media reports about
this drug chloroquine which is an
anti-malarial drug it's already approved
as the president said for the treatment
of malaria as well as in arthritis
condition that's a drug that the
president has directed us to take a
closer look at as to whether an expanded
use approach to that could be done to
actually see if that benefits patients
and again we want to do that in the
setting of a clinical trial a large
pragmatic clinical trial to actually
gather that information and answer the
question that needs to be answered and
asked and answered let me give you
another example
there's a cross-agency effort about
something called convalescent plasma
this is a pretty exciting area and again
this is something that we have given
assistance to other countries with as
this crisis has developed so FDA's been
working for some time on this
if you've been exposed to coronavirus
and you're better you don't have the
virus in your blood we could collect the
blood now this is a possible treatment
this is not a proven treatment just want
to emphasize that collect the blood
concentrate that and have the ability
once it's pathogen-free that is virus
free be able to give that to other
patients and the immunoglobulins the
immune response could potentially
provide a benefit to patients it's
another thing that we're looking at over
the next couple weeks we'll have more
information that we're really pushing
hard to try to accelerate that that's in
the sort of more medium short term and
that'll be a bridge to other therapies
that will take us three to six months to
develop and this is a continuous process
there is no beginning and end to each of
this this is you know we're pushing this
through the other great thing about the
great innovators of America some of them
tell us it's taken us years years to
develop therapies they're looking at
pushing that to the months period of
time and we're trying to provide them
the regulatory flexibility but at the
same time the scientific oversight to
make sure that gets done in the best way
possible for the American people the
president mentioned that there is a
vaccine trial currently being performed
it's a phase one trial so it's the
earliest study that gets done we expect
that to take 12 months to get depletion
to actually a time where we could
approve a vaccine but that's these are
all things to bridge to the prevention
part of this with a vaccine it's
exciting work and the president is right
this is record time for the development
of a vaccine and impressive
public-private partnership the FDA's
efforts to facilitate the development of
these products are focused on ensuring
timely access while also meeting the
agency's world respected gold standard
relying on strong data from clinical
trials to determine if an experimental
or an off-the-shelf drug that's used for
something else can safely and
effectively treat patients we want to
assure the American people that FDA is
all hands on deck as the president
mentioned these efforts and continue to
work with interested sponsors to help
expedite the work we remain steadfast in
helping to foster the development of
safe and effective therapies for koba 19
thank you Thank You mr. president
the White House coronavirus task force
met this morning and on this very first
day of springg we continue to make
steady progress toward president Trump's
objective not only to marshal all the
resources of the federal government
every state government every every local
health official but also to harness the
power of the American private sector and
activities over the last day reflect all
of those priorities
yesterday the president spoke with
America's top physicians and nurses and
garnered helpful insights about how we
can best serve those who are serving
Americans that are dealing with the
coronavirus we also had a productive
call with over 5,000 state and local
officials explaining the federal
government's approach and our strong and
seamless partnership with all 50 states
in the territories last night as you
heard the president side the family
first coronavirus response Act which
provides free coronavirus testing paid
sick leave family leave for caregivers
and food assistance for the needy among
a broad range of benefits and today as
the president indicated we expect that
the Senate will begin work on an
economic relief package later today the
president and I will meet again in a
teleconference with the nation's
governors we will meet at the National
Response Coordination Center at FEMA and
outline president Trump's decision to
have FEMA take the lead in our national
coronavirus response our nation's
response through FEMA will be locally
executed state managed and federally
supported on testing we want the
American people to know once again the
testing is available in all 50 states as
is becoming increasingly available
literally every hour of the day because
of the public-private partnership that
the president initiated several weeks
ago with major commercial labs I'm
pleased to receive a report today that
tens of thousands of tests are being
performed every day and with the passage
of last night's legislation
estate and private labs are now required
by law to report all coronavirus testing
directly to the CDC which will give the
American public and also give our
researchers timely and important
information it's important for every
American to remember that if you don't
have symptoms you don't need to get a
test we want to make sure the testing is
available for people that are
experiencing symptoms or have a genuine
concern about having been exposed to
someone with the coronavirus dr. Burks
will address county level data as well
as the progress we've made on testing
and Americans can expect to see how an
increased number of cases as our new
testing system comes online should not
be a cause of concern she'll explain the
importance of taking into account our
new testing system as new data arrives
over the next several days on supplies a
priority the president has given to our
task force we continue to work with
healthcare providers businesses and
state leadership to identify available
supplies not merely in the federal
stockpile but much more importantly
available across the private sector
we're encouraged to see companies like
Honeywell and 3m that I visited a few
short weeks ago take advantage of the
changes in the law last night that allow
the sale of industrial masks directly to
hospitals those companies have now
greatly increased by the tens of
millions their production of so-called
n95 masks that will give our health care
workers the protection that they need to
minister to those that are dealing with
the symptoms or the disease of
coronavirus I'm following the signing of
last night's bill all of those masks now
have liability protection and the
companies can sale industrial masks to
hospitals it is encouraging as we called
out yesterday to see construction
companies all across America that are as
we speak
checking their supplies and donating
those industrial masks to their local
hospitals and I know I speak on behalf
of the president we spent a lot of time
as a builder when we thank builders
across America for partnering with our
local healthcare officials
on the subject of ventilators we're
working with healthcare providers around
America and and suppliers and I'm we're
encouraged to learn that we've literally
identified tens of thousands of
ventilators that being can be converted
to treat patients and we remain
increasingly confident that we will have
the ventilators that we need as the
coronavirus makes its way across America
and as we said before this we're all in
this together and before I step away and
and give the podium back to the
president and to dr. Burks I want to
call every American's attention again to
the president's 15 days to slow the
spread we continue to hear one case
after another one city after another
where people are putting into practice
the principles that the president
outlined this Monday and make no mistake
about it that while for the American
people as a whole the risk of serious
illness remains low these guidelines
should be practiced by every American in
every community not only to lessen the
spread of the corona virus but to
protect the most vulnerable among us and
I think Americans with their with from
their hearts are not only practicing
these principles of social distancing
and avoiding social gatherings of more
than 10 people using drive throughs at
restaurants to protect their own health
and the health of their family but
they're also recognizing that that no
American wants to inadvertently convey
the coronavirus to someone for whom the
consequences could be quite serious at
the president's direction will continue
to marshal all the resources of
government at every level
we'll be reiterating that strong
partnership with America States this
afternoon with America's governor's
pulling all of the private sector energy
together the innovation that you just
heard described I know on this first day
of spring that we'll get through this
and we'll get through this together
thank you mister thank you very much
[Music]
thank you Thank You mr. president so I
know you're watching the data carefully
you can see the dramatic increases in
the number of new cases based on our
ability to test additional people and
this will continue over the next two to
three days as we begin to have backlogs
reduced of the testing you all have
heard the antidotes of people waiting
five or six days for their test results
we are moving through all of that as
well as testing individuals I really
want to applaud the frontline healthcare
workers the nurses and the doctors and
the testers that have really prioritized
and the American people who have a
prioritized those with symptoms the
number of tests positive is increasing
that is a dramatically important
signature that everybody is doing their
job those with mild symptoms are staying
home self isolating those with serious
symptoms are coming forward to getting
testing our test positive rates are now
into the ten to eleven percent range
that still means that 90 percent of the
illness is out there even the severe
ones are not kovat 19 I know many of you
are looking at the state-level data
still over 50% of the cases come from
three states this is why we continue to
prioritize testing in those states in
addition 50 percent of the cases come
from ten counties we're a very large
country with very many counties and I
just want to applaud the local and state
governments that are implementing their
emergency operation centers and plans to
ensure I want to also really thank the
health care workers that have been asked
to reduce all elective surgeries medical
and dental visits this will dramatically
increase the number of ventilators that
are available in hospitals but also in
ambulatory surgical centers that can be
converted and utilized and also the to
the construction industry we are deeply
grateful the number as vice president
said the number of individuals have come
forward with their construction mask
their booties their Tyvek suits on suits
and their masks to contribute them to
the health care sector the President's
request to make this available
in that legislation changes the ability
and increases our availability
immediately by than 75 to 90 percent
range because the amount of construction
use of those elements thank you thank
you doctor very much
Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president huh
today you heard a wonderful announcement
from the FDA and I just want to give a
shout out to Steve dr. Hahn and the
folks at the FDA were about what several
hundred of my commissioned Corps
officers work you're right mr. president
they are tireless they're doing things
that have never been done before to
bring the most most prudent advances to
the American people but I want to talk
about something different briefly we
know many of you are home practicing the
president's guidelines for social
distancing but one thing we should all
consider especially our Millennials in
Gen Z is donating blood as an
anesthesiologist who still practices at
Walter Reed taking care of our wounded
warriors and our soldiers I know
donated blood is an essential part of
caring for patients and one donation can
save up to three lives blood centers are
open now and in need of your donation I
want America to know the blood donation
is safe and blood centers are taking
extra precautions at this time based on
new CDC recommendations including
spacing beds 6 feet apart disinfecting
surfaces between patient's temperature
checking staff and encouraging donors to
make appointments ahead of time so we
can space them out social distancing
does not have to mean social
disengagement so give blood today you'll
feel good about it and you'll be helping
your country and your community during
this crisis and you might even save a
life
yeah please mr. president switching to
the the Epis to boost the economy with
the commissioners for congress will you
guarantee that the money the billions
the tens of billions of dollars hundreds
of billions of dollars even that's gonna
go but to these industries will not go
to executive bonuses or to more stock
buybacks well we don't want that in fact
some companies as you know did stock
buybacks and I was never happy with that
it's very hard to tell them not to but I
would tell them not to I would say I
don't like it for that reason some did
and it turned out that they could have
waited a long time it would have been
much better off if they did the
condition of the bill you could say and
not this morning can go I'm making I've
been you know take so many many people
in this case to tango but as far as I'm
concerned that conditions like that
would be okay with me question for you
and then a question for dr. klahn you
enabled I guess is probably the best way
to put it the defense production act
yesterday but you don't pull the trigger
on it no because we hope we're not gonna
need that from the Democratic leadership
pull the trigger on wait what's the
rationale for not doing first of all
governors are supposed to be doing a lot
of this work and they are doing a lot of
this work federal government's not
supposed to be out there buying vast
amounts of items and then shipping you
know we're not a shipping clerk the
governors are supposed to be as with
testing the governor suppose are
supposed to be doing it will help out
and will help out wherever we can and we
can buy in volume and in some cases
great volume with the masks as an
example which were really a problem we
have helped out and they're right now
millions of masks being made but this is
really for the local governments
governors and people within the state
depending on the way they divided it up
and they'll do that and they're doing a
very good job of it
where you have a problem with
ventilators we're working very hard
trying to find nobody in their wildest
dreams would have ever thought that we
need tens of thousands of ventilators
this is something that's very unique to
this to what happened
conditions would you put the defense
production act into action well if we
were desperately in need of something
and we frankly will know about that very
shortly we want to be ahead of we don't
want to do it as it happens but before
it happens we're going to know a lot
over the next two or three days we'll
know a lot any idea when REM disappear
will be available to the market and are
there any drugs in the pipeline that you
believe could qualify for a treatment I
indeed so with respect to the first
question I'm prohibited by law to
disclose confidential commercial
information what I can tell you is we're
working very closely with the company on
this and we'll have additional
information they will relatively soon
yes there are drugs in the pipeline
we're looking at everyone everyone on
this Dyess gets calls every day as to
all of our people at the FDA about
potential therapeutic options we are
looking at every single one of them
we're trying to find that out this has
been going on for years many years
they've been trying to find Austin Tice
he was in Syria as you know his mother
is an incredible woman and I'm doing it
for him but I'm doing it for his mother
his brothers an incredible woman who's
desperate to find her son and I'm not
confirming a lot but if he is alive if
we would like very much to get him back
quickly okay and on coronavirus speaking
of shortages of supplies the CDC has put
out guidelines for hospitals that are
dealing with
shortage of mass to use them beyond
their shelf-life reuse them instead of
getting new ones and in a worst-case
scenario use a bandana instead of a mask
how is that acceptable at all well I
haven't seen that but I will let Mike
answer that question by specially I'm
happy to mr. president I just I can't
emphasize enough the incredible progress
that was made with the passage of the
legislation last night and President had
me go to Minnesota and meet with 3m that
manufactures these in 95 mass a few
weeks ago and we learned of their
production at that facility of 35
million mass a month less than 5 million
of those were qualified to be sold to
hospitals so President worked with
Republican and Democrat leadership we've
extended the liability protection so now
that all the industrial masks that are
manufactured as n95 s are now available
to hospitals and we're seeing a dramatic
increase in production
Honeywell alone is repurposing a factory
that was destined for Mexico to produce
another 120 million mass per year 3m is
increasing output to 420 million masks
per year we really we've put a priority
at the president's direction on making
sure those that are providing healthcare
services to America have the protection
to keep themselves and their families
safe and with the legislation last night
with the incredible response among these
great private sector companies and as we
mentioned repeatedly with construction
companies around America heating the
president's call to donate their
industrial mass to hospitals is
happening all over America we know will
meet that need
or at least we start getting them ready
well as I mentioned 3m is increasing
their output 420 million a year at
production and January they make 35
million per month at that facility and
we're we're prioritizing the
distribution of those but the other
thing and we'll emphasize this with
governor's this afternoon is we're
working with governor's to make sure
that the healthcare providers the
hospitals and the clinics in their state
are placing orders now that this
tremendous increase in supply
particularly with industrial mass is now
available we're going to make sure they
understand that the supply has greatly
expanded thanks to a bipartisan
legislation and the accomplishment the
president and the response by these
companies is making more mass available
and we're going to make sure healthcare
providers are purchasing those and the
federal government will also make sure
that our stockpile is properly reflects
those increases as well they're
available now the 3m facility that I was
at told me in that in January they went
to full production on 35 million masks
the legislative change means that all 35
million of those that started to be
produced at full capacity in January can
now be sold to hospitals that's the
distinction here it's a very important
change and it's part of the way the
president has been engaging the private
sector pushing the kind of regulatory
reform and the kind of liability reform
that has greatly expanded the
availability of mass so they're in the
marketplace now we're gonna make it
clear to governor's as we made it clear
to healthcare providers in conference
calls yesterday that those resources are
now there we've vastly increased the
supply of medical mass and we're going
to continue to put a priority on making
sure that we're calling on industry at
every level calling on major suppliers
that the president met with this week to
make sure that those personal protective
equipment are there to do with the
liability
the company that had a big problem with
liability and much of it had to do with
the liability to the company thank you -
for you in one for dr. Han the American
Hospital Association just told NBC News
that they need a hundred billion dollars
in order to address shortages in
equipment and other infrastructure there
you just signed two legislative packages
they say it didn't directly give money
to address this issue why not and will
you commit to me looking at that issue
directly with them and that's a separate
issue but we're looking at that issue
very directly we're working with
Democrats and Republicans or that we're
looking at that very specifically you
bottom-line people when can Americans
expect their lives to go back to normal
will that not happen until there's a
vaccine I hope very soon we'll see this
is uncharted territory as you know we
think we have ideas it doesn't help to
say what the ideas I would hope very
soon we're we've pulled together as a
nation people are for the most part
doing what they're supposed to be doing
the social distancing is very
interesting a whole new term that's
become a hot it's become somewhat of a
hot term but people are listening and
they're and they're really doing a great
job this country is an amazing country I
think you're up to 141 different
countries right now so it's very
uncharted territory could just could
have been stopped could have been
stopped pretty easily if we had known if
everybody had known about it a number of
months before people started reading
about it before we started reading about
we could have could have been stopped in
its tracks unfortunately they didn't
decide to make it public but the whole
world is suffering because of it
did have a sense that this was a
pandemic it was coming so why was the
United States not prepared with more
testing the only thing we weren't
prepared for was the the media the media
has not treated it fairly I'll tell you
how prepared I was I called for a ban
from people coming in from China long
before anybody thought it was in fact it
was your network I believe they called
me a racist because I did that it was
many of the people in the room they
called me racist and other words because
I did that because I went so early so
when you say we weren't prepared had I
left these tens of thousands of people
come in from China a day we would have
had something right now that would have
been you wouldn't have even recognized
it compared to where we are how many
people have passed away how many people
have died as of this moment you could
multiply that by a factor of many many
many so when you say that I wasn't
prepared I was the first one to do the
ban now other countries are following
what I did but the media doesn't
acknowledge that they know it's true
they know it's don't want to get it the
states are supposed to get it but we're
helping the states look for years they
bought them and now all of a sudden
they're coming to the federal government
we're working with the states we're
working with the governors we're working
with everybody the relationships are
great one of the things that happened
this morning I spoke with Micky Arison
of Carnival Cruise Lines and he's going
to make ships available so in addition
to the big medical ships that you have
coming if we should need ships with lots
of rooms
they'll be docked at New York and Los
Angeles and San Francisco different
places so I want to thank Mickey s and
that's Carnival Cruise Lines
about invoking the defense production
I've done it yeah if we find that we
need something that we will do that and
you don't know what we've done you don't
know whether or not we've ordered you
don't know if we've invoked it you don't
know what's been ordered what's not
going on it I can only tell you I can
only tell you that as an example masks
nobody ever heard of the number of mass
that's been ordered they're being made
now and many are available now but
people I think in the media probably
don't know that could you explain the
gap and for the American people and what
you're saying here today about there
being tens of thousands of tests
available about how they're being a huge
amount of masks available and what we're
seeing on the ground which is really the
opposite of that people are people are
saying that they can't get tested even
when they have symptoms people are
saying that they doctors are telling us
they don't have access to vital
equipment can you explain that that gap
well I can't I cannot explain a gap I'm
hearing very good things on the ground
and we're dealing with love they had a
ramp up they had an obsolete system and
they had a system simultaneously that
was not meant for this it wasn't meant
for this nobody knew they'd be a
pandemic or an epidemic of this
proportion nobody's ever seen anything
like this before I can tell you that
what we're doing is we're working with
local governments with states governors
even mayors on getting them to be able
to get what they need and the system is
starting to work out very well but we
had a breaker system like breaking an
egg because the system we had was
obsolete and didn't work and that was a
system we inherited and now we have
something that's really been very good
and certainly going to be great for the
future - yep
building among congressional Republicans
and then your supporters about a
corporate bailout in particular Senator
Mike Braun said that this could harken
back to 2008 where we're picking winners
and losers and he indicated that he and
some of his colleagues may not be
comfortable with that will you sign it
well we don't want to pick winners and
losers we want everybody to benefit we
want I think more than anything else the
workers to benefit and sometimes for the
worker to benefit you have to go through
the company because they have thousands
of workers and if the company goes out
of business no fault of their own those
workers aren't going to be able to
receive a check so where look our
ultimate goal or the people our ultimate
goal of the great people of this country
and we will have things worked out I
think that are going to be very well
it's a very complex formula you
understand that very complex but it's
working out I think it's going to be
very well I think we're gonna have
pretty uniform support for it please put
an advisory Kelli America's not to
travel overseas at all are you putting
in an overseas travel but we're speaking
with the State Department later I can't
say right now because I haven't had the
meeting yet about today's announcement
if I hear whose background thank you so
much I wanted to ask out rent rent
severe if I pronounced that correctly
can you tell saves it currently approved
for use on the virus
so Brenda severe and it's a drug made by
Gilead that's been in the press it is
currently in clinical trials here and
around the world we have also made it
available by that approach that I told
you called compassionate use where a
doctor could ask the FDA for that and
the really positive thing about that
that gives it rapidly to a doctor and a
patient but it allows us to collect the
data because what we really need to do
is understand what the data and science
are in order to make the appropriate
decision about safety and effectiveness
so how do you
just make sure that it is safe and I
mean is there any concern at all that it
will be safe considering that it's not
going through the normal process and and
could potentially cause negative effects
dr. pouchy earlier talked about we do
not want to put out anything that could
cause a negative effects is there any
concern about those kind of things with
this drugs yeah thank you for that
question
because I just want to be clear about
this Ramdev severe is going through the
normal process we are using our internal
processes at FDA to set up with the
company the protocols to actually
collect the data and you're right we
need to actually know about the safety
and the effectiveness and that's done
through the clinical trial process so
it's those data that are going to inform
the decisions that are ultimately made
about safety and efficacy this is a an
unprecedented situation this is a really
significant time and one thing that with
the president's leadership FDA has done
is say okay how do we approach these
extraordinary times with extraordinary
measures knowing that we have a sacred
trust with the American people about
safety and efficacy but still at the
same time enable these treatments to get
into patients and that's what we're
doing
[Applause]
one for you and one for the doctors how
likely is it that the 15 day guidance
that you would
room will be extended I can only go you
have a 40th day and we'll have to see
well we'll have indications later on dr.
Burks indicated that there are three
states and ten counties if I got that
right where 50% of the cases are focused
should those areas be doing more
measures such as shelter-in-place I
think they actually are doing a lot I
mean they I know New York is is working
very diligently been very strong
I assume San Francisco's one of the
areas in Los Angeles and the state of
Washington obviously that's one that has
to be up there they're all working very
hard to to quarantine or words just
about the equivalent of quarantine plans
are more government workers are you
moving for the government as well to
start doing more teleworking we are and
we're doing we're using the medical term
of telemedicine and it's been incredibly
busy and really you know what people
don't have to ever eat some people can't
do it anyway they can't get up they
can't see a doctor but we're using this
and it's been telehealth different names
and I will tell you that it's been
really successful it's helped a lot of
people out where they don't have to and
they can't and even from a safety reason
if they are positive they are if they
are feeling poorly
they can't do it or we don't want them
transmitting anything to anybody else on
China they reported for the first time
since the outbreak no new cases over a
24-hour period do you have any reason to
disbelieve them and second to that the
National Security Council yesterday put
out a tweet very critical of the Chinese
government saying the Chinese Communist
Party suppressed initial reports and the
Chinese virus and punished doctors and
journalists causing Chinese and
international experts to miss critical
opportunities to prevent a global
could you expel it would have much
better if we had known about this a
number of months earlier it could have
been contained to that one area in China
where it started and certainly the world
is paying a big price for what they did
and the world is paying a very big price
but not for not letting them come out
everybody knows that we all know that as
far as as far as believing what they're
putting out now I hope it's true who
knows but I hope it's true the Chinese
virus if you have heard about this some
day one and had more information
possibly you could have stopped every
difference
are you thinking about any types of
repercussions for China and are you also
rethinking sort of the supply lines for
our manufacturing industry I don't want
to comment on that right now I have a
question for you and also question for
dr. Burks at you American workers across
the country are losing their jobs and
unprecedented rate and your former
economist said we could see some of the
worst job numbers ever is the government
prepared to see the spike in
unemployment no worst case scenario you
would have terrible job numbers if we
can get this thing wrapped up and
finished earlier things will go very
nicely and one of the things they're
working as you know one of the elements
that is being worked on very much so in
the hill is to keep the jobs going so
that when we do get rid of the virus
we're gonna be able to just really I
think go like a rocket I think the
economy is going to be fantastic now
when he said that he was using that as
the ultimate bad outcome I don't think
anybody believes that's gonna happen
members of Congress are now being tested
positive for members of Congress are not
being tested positive for echovirus and
you have almost two dozen or
self-quarantine do you have any guidance
for Congress should they I know all of
them and I don't know if they're sitting
like you people are sitting you're
actually sitting too close
you should really we should probably get
rid of about another 75 80 percent of
you I'll have just two or three that I
like in this room I think that's a great
way of doing it we just we get a new way
of doing it but you're actually much too
close you know you take you should leave
immediately but but look look I know all
of them they tested positive hopefully
they're all going to get better and it's
one of those things it's Congress where
they tested positive they're in
quarantine and I know Lindsey and many
others are they they didn't test it but
until they got the result they put
themselves in quarantine a number of
people in Congress right now are in
quarantine they don't know the results
when they get the result they'll leave
this stay there and get better because
people get better I mean most people are
getting better most by far the people
you get better does it mean it's not a
tough one it is a tough one but now when
they many people in Congress have felt
not perfect or they met somebody that
wasn't perfect it turned out to be
positive and they've put themselves in
quarantine and I think I think Congress
has behaved unbelievably well in that
regard
of the stimulus sir given what is
happening the economy do you think a
trillion-dollar stimulus is enough well
know about that later Oh we'll see what
happens it depends how long so much
depends on what's going on in this room
in terms of the medical if we can stop
it in its tracks the virus it's plenty
if we can't we'll have to go back and
talk do you support the idea of the
government taking an equity stake in
certain companies I do people are coming
people are coming in for money in some
cases no fault of their own but in some
cases where they did certain things over
the course of the years including by
buying back stock you know they bought
back stock and they paid a high price
for it as it turned out but maybe I view
that as a little bit differently than
somebody that didn't then somebody that
bill plants all over the United States
of which there were plenty of them two
airlines are Boeing or what what do you
think we will be helping the airline
industry we will be helping the cruise
ship industry we probably will be
helping the hotel industry will probably
be where jobs are created you don't want
to lose industries like this these are
incredible industries you can't lose
them so we'll be focused on many
industries and I have to say I can't
state it struggling enough we will be
helping small businesses that's where
it's complicated because a lot of small
you know that's the engine of the of the
country we will be helping small
business
for the two members of Congress that
have tested positive for echovirus these
will be votes that you need to pass this
one trillion dollar stimulus package for
the economy do you expect this to slow
down with delivery of checks for
American families and are you
considering any new executive action
there could be we're looking at a couple
of things that I could do hopefully we
won't need it but we can do was there's
a lot of executive power if we don't
have to use it that would be a good
thing not a bad thing yeah please Thank
You mr. president
one for you and potentially as well one
for dr. Burgess dr. Adams right now the
economy is essentially ground to a halt
thanks for telling stores of clothes
Travel has slowed down
go ahead what's the rush deflation we
know that everybody in the room knows it
the question is how long should those
who are either not working right now or
business owners who have to make
critical decisions how long should they
expect the state of affairs as it stands
at this moment to play out and for for
the doctors behind you be able to tell
you that very I think in the near future
we'll see where we're going you're gonna
see numbers you've seen the graphs
you're gonna see numbers and we'll be
able to let you know I will say that the
American public has been incredible for
the most part not at all cases but for
the most part so you'll be able to see
what's happening over the nests as we
say we had a 15 day period you'll be
able to tell a lot in a week or so not
everything but we'll be able to see over
a period of day and for all the parents
that are home right now this is a
question for dr. burns or dr. Adams who
are caring for their children and are
curious as to when my kids be able to go
back to school what do you think is a
realistic timeline well I think you know
most of all of those decisions are made
at the state and local government level
and each state and local government has
handled it differently that's why we put
out from the president federal federal
presidential guidance to every single
person about what we think is important
for the next two weeks and as we look at
that data
we'll be able to see if it's having an
impact I think you've all seen the
modeling studies those were driven by
the modeling studies showing that you
add these things together they have a
impact then separately and so those are
part of the decision-making we had a
whole group of modelers in yesterday
they're compositing all the data
together to look at this carefully
because everyone has those same
questions of what the impact will be and
what pieces could essentially be removed
and you still have the same level of
impact in decreasing the spread of the
virus the absolute key to this though is
every single American looking at the
president guidelines and taking it
seriously the acts of selflessness that
I am seeing are so impressive across the
board but if even 10 or 15 percent of
the population decides that what they're
doing today is more important than the
health and welfare of the rest of the
Americans they can spread the virus in a
very strong way because you know the
level of contagion chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine works or any of the
other things that they're looking at
that are not quite as far out but if
they work your numbers are going to come
down very rapidly so we'll see what
happens but there's a real chance they
might was taking photos with supporters
in gorging mass demonstration and just
yesterday presidents from Brazil said
and we should not be surprised if we see
him in the next few days in a crowded
subway in Sao Paulo or in a bus in Rio
because he is the president it should
view the people what do you think about
that what's your message
well he's a friend of mine number one
and number two we had dinner the other
night and everybody said he was positive
and he wasn't positive he tested
negative so that was I I was quite happy
when I heard that but I have no message
for a mother than he's doing a good job
in Brazil good job in Brazil he's very
popular
hold on encouraging math in Austria
these morons I can't tell you about that
I don't know about that I have not heard
that he's doing a very good job Brazil
was very troubled before he got there
and he's the people loved him and
popular I think he's doing a very good
job there are Americans who were
travelling abroad or essentially stopped
unable to come home we spoke to a green
beret ten women hope Americans territory
well we spoke to ten American women who
were in Morocco for instance all the
flights have been cancelled their hotel
is shutting down they literally have no
place to stay and no way to get home
they are asking you they're asking the
administration the US government for
help what can be done we know about it
we have groups we have a group of young
people in in Peru and we're working on
taking care of that with the military
military evacuated take no not
evacuation what we're trying to get them
out and you know they got caught they
were late with their flights we gave
them a period of time they didn't make
it but we're looking to get them out
with military probably through the
military we have a group of young young
people I think young men or young people
could be women also with them from
Alabama the great state of Alabama and
they're in Peru and we're working on
that right now trying to get them out
it's a large group it's about 300 well
we're gonna work it out Jeff - president
- sort of foreign policy related
questions and your talk with the g7
leaders earlier this week did you
discuss together ending or postponing
the Olympics yeah we did discuss it as
you know Prime Minister obby was on the
call and that's a big decision for him
and we don't know what his decision is
but we'd live with his decision it's a
tough situation they've done an
incredible job
Japan has done an incredible job when
building the venues getting them built
you know you've seen so many Olympic
venues that have been a disaster over
the years where they cost five times
more than they were supposed to they
weren't ready in time Japan has been
just the opposite they built it
beautifully they built it for what it
was supposed to be built for but then he
got hit with the same thing that the
rest of the world got it
unexpectedly he as he has told us that
he has not made a decision as to what to
do
also on foreign policy have you spoken
to the leaders of Saudi Arabia or Russia
and encouraged them to stop this glut of
oil that is affecting the market well
the one thing I will tell you is that
from the standpoint you always get a
little bit torn because you know until
we became the leading producer I was
always for the person driving the car
and filling up the tank of gas and you'd
have gasoline and the prices were if
they were too high I would always raise
hell with OPEC and I was always somebody
that liked saying I never thought I'd
see 22 and 24 and 28 dollars a barrel
but that's what we have and in one way
our consumer is very much helped it's
like it's like a massive tax increase
that's bigger than any tax increase
decreased that you could give you know
we can give all these big tax cuts but
they're paying so little for gasoline
but on the other hand it hurts a great
industry and a very powerful industry so
I spoke with numerous people that have a
lot to do with it and we have a lot of
power over the situation and we're
trying to find some kind of a medium
grant you know it's it's very
devastating to Russia because when you
look I mean the whole economy is based
on that and they have we have the lowest
oil prices in decades so it's very
devastating to Russia I would say it's
very bad for Saudi Arabia but they were
in a fight they were in a fight on price
they were in a fight on output and at
the at the appropriate time I'll get
involved you will the Carnival cruise
ships be used for well Mickey called up
and he said if you need them and we
haven't said yes I'll call Governor
Cuomo I'll I'll call Gavin from Gavin
Newsom governor from California I'll
call a few of the other governors
they're going to bring it up today
because we're meeting through phone
through telephone telephonically as they
say in a little while at FEMA I'm going
over FEMA from here
well you can increase places to stay
let's say places to stay if it works I
mean you know I don't know maybe people
won't wanna but he made the offer was a
very generous offer and he said that he
has some ships that would be ideally
suited for what we're doing and
certainly they have a lot of rooms
they're big and they have a lot of rooms
so we appreciate it from Carnival you're
talking about not needing a test right
now if you're not showing any symptoms
but a lot of leading the tests are only
getting tested if you're showing
symptoms but a lot of this well you're
only good
we should I didn't have any symptoms
that I got a test but I got a test
because you people were driving
everybody crazy so that's the only
reason I had no symptoms but I had a
test and my doctor told me don't get it
you don't need it everybody said you
don't need it but I had to do it because
the press was going crazy and then after
I got it they said you should know
Garden it you had no symptoms you know
the whole thing so in other words if you
get it it was no good but that's I'm a
unique case unfortunately but no people
that don't show symptoms and people that
have doctors that say they shouldn't get
it I would rely on that no I don't think
it's I don't think it's racist at all on
that note major left-wing news media
even in this room have teamed up with
Chinese Communist Party narratives and
they're claiming you are racist for
making these claims about Chinese bars
is it a litter mate that major media
players just don't close you are
consistently siding with foreign state
propaganda Islamic radicals and Latin
gangs and cartels and they work right
here at the White House with direct
access to you and your team it amazes me
when I read the things that I read it
amazes me when I read The Wall Street
Journal which is always so negative it
amazes me when I read the New York Times
is not even I don't I barely read it you
know we don't distribute it in the White
House anymore in the same thing with the
Washington Post because you see I know
the truth and people out there in the
world they really don't know that they
don't know what it is they use different
slogans and different concepts for me
almost every week trying to catch
something last week it was all chaos you
see me there's no K I said no chaos I'm
the one telling everybody to be calm
there's no chaos at the White House we
have unbelievable professionals it's
really I mean I think I came up with the
term I hope I came up with the term but
it is faked as it's more than fakeness
it's corruptness they write stories
without calling anybody they write a
story today I had a couple of stories
where they never call me ever that I
know of at least nobody tells me they'll
write a story about me without even
asking my opinion on something it's
totally fake I've never seen I mean
there is a story in The Wall Street
Journal today about you know about how
we've done we've done a phenomenal job
on this the governor's dream is even
gavin newsom who you know I'm usually
fighting with over the fires and I think
you should do a different kind of a job
at the in the forests and lots of things
we've we argue a lot but Gavin Newsom
has been very very generous generous
Andrew Cuomo has been really very
generous I mean they're saying we're
doing a great job and everybody's saying
but then you read this faint phony story
in The Wall Street Journal or where the
Washington Post is going wild lately I
don't know what happened to them I guess
something happened like we don't call
them back or
ever but the Washington Post these are
very dishonest media sources they're
very dishonest and you know what someday
hopefully in five years I won't be here
and that'll be fine I will have done I
think a great job because I don't think
anyone has done as much in three and a
half years as I've done I don't think
and the administration this
administration has done a great job but
the press is very dishonest well I think
they do I mean I mean they are siding
with they are siding with China they are
doing things that they shouldn't be
doing this I do with many others China
is the least of it
so why why they're doing this you'll
have to ask them but if we had an honest
media in this country our country would
be an even greater place so ladies and
gentlemen thank you very much we are
very excited about we are very excited
about in specifically what we talked
about with the chloroquine I think the I
think it could be something really
incredible it could totally depress the
times that we had mentioned wait excuse
me excuse me they could totally
depressed anytime that we're talking
about if it works there are a lot of
reasons that I have to believe again dr.
Han is the expert but a lot of reasons
that I would have to think that it could
have a very positive effect or a
positive effect maybe not very but maybe
maybe positive I think it's to me very
very exciting and the beauty is I think
I can say this Dave the beauty is that
these drugs have been out there so the
really danger part of the drugs
especially chloroquine it's been out
there for years so we know it's
something that can be taken safely so
it's very important
[Music]
president has asked us to expedite this
and what I want to assure you because of
the questions that were asked
we want to make sure that this is done
well and right for the American people
the president is right with an
off-the-shelf drug we do have a lot of
information about the side effects of
the drug so that really helps in terms
of expediting but but I want to show you
that we're working as quickly as we can
I don't want to speculate about a
timeline at this point with respect to
vaccines that's in phase one trial as I
mentioned we're expecting that to
proceed moving forward and we're working
with a number of different other
companies about vaccine development was
fast-tracked
is it possible phase 2 and phase 3 can
be fast-tracked that we might see a
vaccine before that year you get you
said it could potentially be this is a
terrific question and we are really
trying hard at FDA to partner with great
industry great academic partners to do
exactly that
no promises can be made but one thing
that we're doing is really working hard
to fast-track as much as possible and
they are
I have other time Samia will be meeting
hopefully not for very long I mean I
would like to see this get cleared up
and we think we've to me this was a very
important conference because I really
think there's great potential here and a
lot of people are going to be trying it
soon like literally very soon literally
in a matter of days if not sooner in
some cases it's already being
experimented with and there's been some
very good results we'll see what happens
but if if we can be even partially right
maybe we'll be fully right but even
partially right on it this whole subject
becomes a much more pleasant subject so
thank you all and we'll we're going over
to FEMA now so I don't know who's going
but we're going to FEMA we're going to
be discussing with the governors and
lots of other people now well I think
that's enough